Now we're gonna move into using plugins,
which is a really useful, another useful
way in which you can use Vuex and a
pattern you can use in your applications.
So a plugin is a function that
receives the stores that argument and
allows you to peek into the Vuex store.
So this is it might be a bit confusing,
but the idea of a plugin is that it
doesn't directly update the store and it
doesn't directly do anything to the store.
It's purely a way in which you can
access the store without touching it.
So it's like being a bystander, and
you're seeing the state change.
You're seeing actions and
mutations happen, but
you're not doing anything to cause them.
You just want to be
notified when that happens.
And why is this useful?
Well, sometimes it's useful to
monitor state changes to perform tasks
that might not necessarily
update the state.
So for example, you might want to make
a separate database call in the event that
someone clicks this button, notify,
going back to the vending machine example.
If someone tries to retrieve an item,
the supplier might want to
know that that thing happened.
But the state of that has nothing
to do with the vending machine or
the person trying to get items or
the inventory at all.
It's purely the supplier wanting to
some extent spy on what's happening
within the state and within the mutations
of the vending machine itself.
And so monitoring state changes is a
really useful way in which you might want
to use the Vuex plugins, and it's
the main reason why you use Vuex plugins.
So the way to use a plug in is not
much different from how you would
add in a module.
So when you add in a module,
you import the module and
then you add it in with the attribute.
So in Vuex, we have this concept of
a plugins attribute that the store has.
And so plugins accepts an array,
because the idea is that you're not the
only plugin there more than one plugin.
And so you can pass in however many
plugins or whatever plugin you're using.
So in the code on the left,
which is the store.js file,
I'm importing my plugin from,
let's say, a plugin file.
And then I'm using that plugin by
adding it to the array of plugins.
So in this case, it's called my-plugin.
It's not very unique or interesting
a name, but it's a good example for now.
And then on the right hand side,
I create a plugin, and
it's again, called my-plugin,
cuz it has to match.
And then, I'm essentially creating this
object of things that are happening.
So the plugin has one argument, or it
takes in an argument, which is the store.
Because the idea is that the plugin
cares about the store and
it cares about what's in it.
And it wants to know how
things are mutating and
what kinds of actions are causing
those mutations and so on.
So it takes in the store and
then it can do various things to it.
You might notice that here I
am subscribing to things and
so specifically I'm subscribing to
let's say a mutation or a state.
And store.subscribe is
specifically what a plugin
has access to,
cuz it can subscribe to mutations.
So generally within the plugin,
if you're peeking into the store,
you wanna know when state changes
that's actually really useful.
Because when state changes,
that's when things are happening,
cuz sometimes an action is called but
then state doesn't change,
cuz the mutation Isn't called and so on.
So, for plugins, generally you
want to subscribe to mutations.
So here I'm subscribing to the mutation,
it also takes in state, so
you can compare the mutations with the
state that can be really useful sometimes.
And within mutation, I can also grab
specific things regarding that mutation.
So You might notice on line seven,
I'm grabbing the type of the mutation and
the type of the mutation is
actually the name of the mutation.
So type is is equivalent to name.
So if I have a mutation
called update service dates,
that is what mutation.type gives you.
And then I also have
access to the payload,
which can be useful because I wanna know
how exactly the state is being changed.
So, a thing to note about here is
that the store.subscribe
when it grabs the mutation.
This by default is before
the mutation happens.
So the state hasn't actually updated.
So the state hasn't actually changed,
it's just the mutation is being called.
So it's before the mutation happens, which
is why grabbing the state can be useful
because you might want to know what
the state is, and what mutation,
how the mutation is changing
that specific state.
So you can do a comparison and so on.
So on the left hand side,
we have our store code.
And let's assume that we have
a mutation called updateServiceDate.
And updateServiceDate takes in a state and
a payload and
updates a specific property called
lastServiced with that payload.
And so I might want to care,
I might care about what that is, and
what that mutation is in the plugin,
I want to know.
So, that's where a plugin
can be really useful.
Let's dive into
the specificities of a plugin.
Before we look at some concrete examples,
first.
So, I showed you a little bit about
what the code looks like, but
let's explore the different pieces of it.
So a plugin is just an object, [LAUGH]
Basically, many things are just objects.
But a plugin takes in
stores its main parameter.
And store is where it can
access the subscribe mutations.
So that's one way in which it accesses
the store grabs the entire store,
and then from that there
are methods within it can call.
There's also the ability
to subscribe to mutations.
So you might notice here that
store.subscribe has mutation as a first
argument.
And that's because I'm subscribing
to a specific mutation and
then I can grab the type and the payload.
And then I can also access the state
which I mentioned can be useful,
because you might want to know how
the state has changed and so on.
And then mutation has properties,
specifically type and payload.
So let's assume that I
want to log information
regarding when a machine is serviced.
So for instance, a machine is serviced and
I want to headquarters to know
when the machine is service.
As I mentioned, they might want
to spy into the process and
the frequency and so on.
And you can think of HQ as sort of
like local storage that can be useful.
A database or an API, whatever you have
it that needs to do logging information.
Or that cares about state that's
changing within an application.
And so what we'll do is,
code sandbox will not work,
so I will move over here.
So we'll look at an example
of the code that I'm running.
So essentially what's happening is I have
a last service timer that checks and
tells me when the button was last clicked.
So if I click it again,
it will update to the last second.
So it's been In my timezone
350 3:30pm central time and
then if I click it again it updates and
so on so it's updating per second.
And what can be useful as I might want
this information to be logged somewhere or
saved somewhere or
propagated somewhere else.
And so what I could do with that is I
could create a way of subscribing to that
specific mutation, and for now what I'll
do is I'll just log it to local storage.
I'll just save it to local storage, and
then it can be useful to just access,
because then instead of
initializing without having a date.
I'll know exactly when something happened.
It's sort of like a database call or
in this case,
local storage does the purpose and
serves the purpose that we need.